Hindu College is now a constituent college of the University of Delhi[1] in Delhi, India. Established in 1899 [initially, at Kinari Bazar (Chandni Chowk, Delhi), later shifted to Kashmiri Gate (Delhi) and then to its present site in Delhi University (North Campus)], it is one of the oldest and most preferred[2] colleges in Delhi. It offers undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in sciences, humanities, social sciences and commerce.

Nationally, it is ranked 2nd in 2019 by National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) under Ministry of Human Resource Development (Government of India)[3]. It is awarded 'Star College' status for its Department of Biotechnology by the Ministry of Science and Technology (Government of India)[4].

The College has produced many notable (infra) alumni in the fields of law, economics, science, psychology, business, literature, media, cinema, military and politics. Notwithstanding its name, students from all religions are admitted to Hindu College.
The college has a 25-acre campus. It also has one auditorium and a seminar room.[10] The college maintains a playground and a sports complex. Basketball, cricket, and table tennis are organised under the supervision of the Director of Physical Education. The college has physics and chemistry laboratories, NCC and NSS rooms. A computer room, photocopier and stationery shop are also available. A Students' Centre offers a bank and a canteen.
Hindu College's boys hostel is situated next to the sports complex of college. It is a structure with 119 rooms enclosing four lawns with rose beds and hedges (charbagh style). The hostel provides residential facilities to about two hundred undergraduate and postgraduate male students. A common room provides the residents recreational facilities such as carrom-board, chess, and a separate TV room apart from the newspapers and magazines. Due to its limited capacity, only the highly meritorious among the college students get admission to the hostel. The college plans to have a girls hostel, which has been delayed due to procedural delays.
Department of Botany
Department of Commerce
Department of Economics
Department of English
Department of Hindi
Department of History
Department of Mathematics
Department of Philosophy
Department of Physics
Department of Political Science
Department of Sanskrit
Department of Sociology
Department of Statistics
Department of Zoology
Department of Chemistry
Department of Physical Science – Chemistry


----------Hansaraj College----------
Hansraj College is a constituent college of the University of Delhi, in New Delhi, India. It is NAAC Grade A+ with CGPA 3.62.[2] The college offers studies in Science, Liberal Arts, and Commerce. Since its foundation in 1948, the college has produced notable alumni who are prominent leaders in their fields nationally and internationally. It is the first college of Delhi University and the first Central University college to hoist a Monumental National Flag in its premises,[3] which was initiated by Flag Foundation Of India(NGO). The flag was hoisted on 25 January 2017, by Hansraj Alumnus and Founder of Flag Foundation Of India, Mr Naveen Jindal.

A premier and foremost institution within the country - Hansraj College is one of the largest constituent college of Delhi University with over 5000 students. Steeped in tradition, the college upholds the name as well as the ideals of the eminent educationalist Mahatma Hansraj.


Constantly ranked amongst the top colleges in the three streams - Hansraj College holds the 3rd position in Commerce, 3rd position in Science and 4th in Humanities.


A product of visionary heads, the college provides courses in all the streams thereby being the only college within the University with maximum courses. The flourishing diversity of courses and students as well as plethora of co-curricular activities and sports ensures nurturing of the future leaders and innovators of modern India.

About The Placement Cell
The Placement Cell, Hansraj College is a student run body headed by teacher convenors appointed by the college administration working towards the common goal of getting all the students placed in various companies. It is a team of 40 diligent individuals striving towards calling the maximum possible companies to the campus for placements.

Internships
The Internship Cell, Hans Raj College is a student run body headed by teacher convenors appointed by the college administration, working towards the common goal of providing students with the wide range of internship opportunities, acting as a building block in enhancing their corporate proficiency and training them to step into the vast corporate world. The Internship Cell is consistent with its commitment to discover new prospects and opportunities hence catering to the most imperative demand of college students.


Carrying the initiative forward, the cell also organises Annual Internship Fair wherein acclaimed recruiters from every domain and sector such as Bajaj Capital, Inspiring Minds, KGS Advisors, ShareKhan, SPA Capital, Ed Times, Rising Bharat, etc visit the fair for hiring interns who are filled with a zest for professionalism. More than 2,600 students across Delhi University and other colleges apply for Hans Raj Internship Fair. The Internship Fair endeavours to connect students from all majors, seeking internships and professional practice experience with potential recruiters and industries.

http://www.placementhansraj.com/

St.Stephen

St. Stephen's College is a constituent college of the University of Delhi. Widely regarded as one of the oldest and most prestigious colleges for arts and sciences in India,[2] the institution has produced a line of distinguished alumni.[3] It was established by the Cambridge Mission to Delhi. The college admits both undergraduates and post-graduates, and awards degrees in liberal arts and sciences under the purview of the University of Delhi.[4] As of 2017, the Governing Body of the College has unilaterally initiated a move towards making it an autonomous institution.

St. Stephen's College is a co-educational institution of higher learning. It is regarded as one of the best colleges in the country. Nationwide surveys such as those by India Today and The Week have consistently described the college as amongst the best colleges in India for both arts and sciences.[15][16][17] It is one of the three founding colleges of University of Delhi, along with Hindu College and Ramjas College.[18] In spite of its location in North India, the college has always striven to admit students and select teachers from all communities and from all parts of India. It also admits a small number of students from overseas. The college offers a number of scholarships and awards to meritorious students. These are endowed over a period of time.[19][20] As of February 2017, the Governing Body (GB) of St. Stephen’s College has decided to go ahead with the proposal to seek autonomy for the institution.[21]

The college is currently situated on a large and well-known campus in Delhi. Its campus is located in the North Campus of the University of Delhi and designed by the distinguished Welsh architect Walter Sykes George. The construction work was completed in 1941.[22] The college had previously functioned from a campus in Kashmiri Gate, Delhi, housed in distinctive Indo-Saracenic Revival architecture. This building now houses the Election Commission of Delhi. In fact, some college playing fields are still located between Kashmiri Gate and Mori Gate.[9] Facilities for a number of sports are provided for on the college campus. The Francis Monk Gymnasium, the Ladies Common Room, and the Junior Common Room provide facilities for indoor sports and recreation. A chapel is open to all members for worship and meditation.[5]

he college has its own selection process unlike other colleges under Delhi University. The college has an online application process where prospective applicants are expected to fill in their interests and academic achievements. The college releases a list for students selected to an interview and admission test by the first week of June. Every department has its own academic criteria and admission test/interview process. Candidates called for interview are usually selected in a ratio of 5:1. St. Stephen's generally receives around 30,000 applicants for 400 seats each year leading to an incredibly low admit rate of 1.33%.[27] However, this rate is also offset by reservation for minorities which amount to 50% and reservation for scheduled castes, tribes and other backward classes as allowed by the Indian Constitution. Accounting for all quotas for affirmative action, St. Stephen's admits roughly 40% students from the general category.

The college also has several exchange programs with universities from Japan, UK, Europe and USA.

The departments offering courses include:

Chemistry
Physics
Mathematics
Computer Science
English
Economics
History
Philosophy
Sanskrit
Hindi
Urdu and Persian
BSc Program
BA Program
There is also an International Languages School which provides certificate courses in European and Asian languages. Further several departments have their own undergraduate research fellowships to encourage undergraduates to engage in research. These fellowships are in partner with other colleges in some cases or advised by the faculty themselves. There are additional certificate courses offered by the college as well in addition to those provided by the Delhi University.

The curriculum of the courses followed is in tune with those of the Delhi University. Two annual exams are held and internal assessment contributing to 25% marks make up for continuous evaluation during the rest of the semester.

The college has also introduced a one of a kind certificate course in "Citizenship and Cultural Richness" which brings together a series of lectures by eminent Indian academics in a variety of fields ranging from science to literature, economics and social values. This had been touted as outreach by the principal of the college.

Student clubs and societies have always played an important role in the life of the college, and are seen as vital to student development. Each academic subject has a society which sponsors lectures and discussions. The popular extra-curricular societies and clubs engage in activities concerned with debating, dramatics, wall climbing and trekking, film, social service, photography, quizzing and astronomy. In continuance of a long tradition, The Planning Forum regularly invites distinguished visitors to address and join issue with students on various topical issues.[29] The college also publishes department newsletters, college magazines and yearbooks. Several departments also publish their annual journals aside from the college publications. The college English dramatics society, The Shakespeare Society, is amongst the most famous clubs in the institution, with a history dating back to the turn of the 20th century. The Shakespeare Society has had a long tradition of performing at least one Shakespeare play annually, a tradition that has started to change with time. Many renowned celebrities started out in this society including Konkana Sen and Kabir Bedi.




 